SwanGallery JupyterLab Extension (#304)
swan-cern/jupyter-extensions: SwanGallery/README.md

> # SwanGallery

Reviewer: Wait, there are no tests.. Or am I'm not seeing correctly? In that case, we should edit the README.

> SWAN Gallery is a service that provides the users with a set of notebooks and project examples to help the user use the service by opening them into its session and using them directly without any extra step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SwanGallery extension allows SWAN users to access the SWAN gallery service from within their SWAN session. In the SWAN gallery, users can find notebook examples from different domains that demonstrate how to use a particular software package or resource from SWAN. Via this extension, users can open such notebooks directly into their session without any extra step.
```

The extension helps reducing the amount of time spent by the user on unnecessary hurdles thanks to its user friendly interface. Since, any user can scroll through the many notebook choices and download it directly to his session within a click. The notebook is then opened in a new tab inside the JupyterLab session allowing the user to freely switch between the many test notebooks and make different changes.

This extension is composed of a Python package named `SwanGallery` for the server extension and a NPM package named `SwanGallery` for the frontend extension.

> The front-end communicates with the static page hosted in an MkDocs server ([MkDocs-SWAN](https://github.com/DYasser/gallery)) that in its own communicates with the python server using `window.PostMessage` to prompt the specific file or folder link to download. The front-end uses the link received to send a request to the back-end, which depending on the link sent uses the download logic to dowload the file or folder inside the existing session.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The front-end communicates with the static page hosted in an MkDocs server ([MkDocs-SWAN](https://github.com/DYasser/gallery)) that in its own communicates with the Python server using `window.PostMessage` to prompt the specific file or folder link to download. The front-end uses the link received to send a request to the back-end, which depending on such link downloads either a file or a folder inside the existing session.
```

> The front-end communicates with the static page hosted in an MkDocs server ([MkDocs-SWAN](https://github.com/DYasser/gallery)) that in its own communicates with the python server using `window.PostMessage` to prompt the specific file or folder link to download. The front-end uses the link received to send a request to the back-end, which depending on the link sent uses the download logic to dowload the file or folder inside the existing session.

Reviewer 2: Why the link to Yasser's fork?

jlpm watch
# Run JupyterLab in another terminal
jupyter lab
```

With the watch command running, every saved change will immediately be built locally and available in your running JupyterLab. Refresh JupyterLab to load the change in your browser (you may need to wait several seconds for the extension to be rebuilt).

By default, the `jlpm build` command generates the source maps for this extension to make it easier to debug using the browser dev tools. To also generate source maps for the JupyterLab core extensions, you can run the following command:

```bash
jupyter lab build --minimize=False
```

### Development uninstall

```bash
# Server extension must be manually disabled in develop mode
jupyter server extension disable SwanGallery
pip uninstall SwanGallery
```

In development mode, you will also need to remove the symlink created by `jupyter labextension develop`
command. To find its location, you can run `jupyter labextension list` to figure out where the `labextensions`
folder is located. Then you can remove the symlink named `SwanGallery` within that folder.

### Testing the extension

#### Server tests

> This extension is using [Pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/) for Python code testing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This extension uses [Pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/) for Python code testing.
```

Install test dependencies (needed only once):

```sh
pip install -e ".[test]"
```

To execute them, run:

```sh
pytest -vv -r ap --cov SwanGallery
```

#### Frontend tests

> This extension is using [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) for JavaScript code testing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This extension uses [Jest](https://jestjs.io/) for JavaScript code testing.
```
